# Pyrepogen
Pyrepogen is a python repository generator for fast and simple preparing the python project repository in standardized way. Pyrepogen provides many options to customize the repository generation.

One of the most important feature of Pyrepogen is to generate **Repoassist** in the generated repository. Repoassist provides some extra features which are useful during your code development and maintaining.

## Requirements

- Python >= 3.7
- Git >= 2.20.0
- GNU Make

> Required software must be available from command line - added into the system PATH.

## Installation

#### **[TEMPORARY UNAVAILABLE]** Install from PyPi

To install Pyrepogen you can use pypi: 

```
pip install pyrepogen
```

#### Install from sources

To install from sources do:

1. Clone or download Pyrepogen repository

2. Enter to `pyrepogen` directory

3. Type `pip install -r requirements.txt`

4. Type `python setup.py install`

   >  Portable usage from sources without installation is also available.

## Example

The fastest way to show how Pyrepogen works is to use demo. Just type:

```
pyrepogen --demo
```

Then a repository will be generated in the `demo_project` directory at your current working directory.

## Usage

There are two ways to generate a repository: **wizard** and a **configuration file**.

### Wizard

To run wizard, type `pyrepogen` in your command line terminal and follow the wizard.

In the case of using from sources, just type `make run` in the root of pyrepogen and follow the wizard.

### Config file

In the case when you want to generate many repositories, using a predefined configuration file is the best solution.  

Configuration file could be created in many ways:

1. Using following config file template and saved as `gen_repo.cfg` file
2. Automatically generated in current working directory when you run Pyrepogen with only `repo_path` parameter.
3. By copying from sources the `gen_repo.cfg` file.

#### Config file template

```
# Required parameters:
# project-type values: package or module
project-type = 
project-name = 
author = 
author-email = 
short-description = 
# changelog-type, authors-type values: generated or prepared
changelog-type = 
authors-type = 

# Optional parameters:
maintainer = 
maintainer-email = 
home-page = 
# is-cloud, is-sample-layout, is-git values: true or false
is-cloud = 
is-sample-layout = 
is-git = 
git-origin = 
```

The next step is to run Pyrepogen with path where a repository will be generated:

```
pyrepogen <path to repo you want to create>
```

> Always specify paths with double quotes when you type space - " " in it!

When your config file is not in your current working directory or it has a different name, you can specify it using `-c` option:

```
pyrepogen <path to repo you want to create> -c <path to config file>
```

#### Config file parameters

Following table describes some of the most interesting and exotic configuration file parameters.

| Parameter        | Description                                                  |
| ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| changelog&#x2011;type   | generated - the changelog file will be automatically generated and updated every release; prepared - the changelog file should be prepared by you manually. |
| authors&#x2011;type     | The same behavior as in the changelog file.                  |
| is&#x2011;cloud         | true - additional futures regarding a cloud handling will be generated; false - do not use this feature |
| is&#x2011;sample&#x2011;layout | true - generate sample files; false - do not use this feature |
| is&#x2011;git           | true - init Git repository; false - do not use this feature  |
| git&#x2011;origin       | Specify an origin of your Git repository. Leave empty if you do not want to specify the remote origin. |

### Available Options

| Option        | Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| repo_path   | Repo name or path to the directory when the repository will be generated. If directory does not exist then will be created. Always enter with double quotes. |
| &#x2011;c/&#x2011;&#x2011;config | Path to the repository config file. |
| &#x2011;u/&#x2011;&#x2011;update | Path to the repository where Repoassist will be updated. |
| &#x2011;q/&#x2011;&#x2011;quiet | Disable output. |
| &#x2011;d/&#x2011;&#x2011;debug   | Enable debug output. |
| &#x2011;f/&#x2011;&#x2011;force | Override existing files. |
| &#x2011;v/&#x2011;&#x2011;version | Show version. |
| --demo | Generate a demo repository in your current working directory. |



# Repoassist

Repoassist is a package generated by Pyrepogen to provide many features useful during your code development and maintaining. This package is stored in `repoassist` directory and used through GNU Make.

## Usage

Usage of this **Repoassist** is based on make targets from the command line. As a terminal, **Linux like terminal with the shell** is recommended, e.g. Git Bash or native Cygwin Console. Windows Command Line terminal **is not supported**.

By typing the `make help` you will list all available targets with simple description.

**DESCRIBE MODULE AND PACKAGE repo type**

**DESCRIBE setup.cfg file**

### Available Targets

#### Make requirements

- Lists necessary environment requirements.
- Installing [Meld Merge](http://meldmerge.org/) is strongly recommended to convenient source files interactive formatting.

#### Make prepare

- Installs development requirements from `requirements-dev.txt` file.
- Installs requirements from `requirements.txt` file.

#### Make update

- Updates Repoassist in your repository to version from installed Pyrepogen.
- If git repository is initialized then new files will be automatically added into the repository tree after receiving a confirmation from wizard.
- To run this target installed Pyrepogen is required.
- Before update Repoassist, update Pyrepogen is recommended to the latest version.

#### Make release

- Generates a **source distribution package** and **wheel** based on source files added to repository tree.
- Packages are generated using Python Build Reasonables (pbr).
- Wizard to simplifying and standardizing the generation process.
- There are two ways to generate packages: release and regenerate.
- Output packages are stored in `dist` directory.

##### Release

- Full package generation process.
- Release tag and release message are delivered by user.

##### Regenerate

- Regenerate current sources to package without tagging.
- If the last commit is equal to last tag commit, then generated package will be a final release package with proper release tag.
- If there are commits after last release tag, then generated package will be a development release package with last release tag with `devN` suffix.
- Changelog and AUTHORS files are not generated in this release type.

##### Extra features

- System Text Editor is used to prepare release message rather than a command line to improve comfort of releasing process. Furthermore by default in Text Editor window are written commit messages since last release tag, ordered from last to first. You can use them to prepare more reliable release message.
- Repository check before release regarding work tree, uncommited changes etc.
- Entered a release tag during the release process are automatically checked with compliance to **Semantic Version**.
- Entered a release tag less than the previous is instantly cached and refused.
- Project `__version__` variable is automatically updated using entered release tag.
- Based on previous release tag new **Changelog** file is generated and incorporated in the new release.
- Based on authors of commits in the repository actual **AUTHORS** file is generated and incorporated in the new release.
- After generating Changelog and AUTORHS **new automatic commit** is added to the repository and **pushed to origin** if exists.

#### Make install

- Installs requirements from `requirements.txt` file.
- Installs a package or module in your Python site-packages directory.

#### Make test

- Runs `pytest` with tests from `tests` directory.
- Options for `pytest` are available in `setup.cfg` file.

#### Make coverage

- Runs `coverage` with `pytest` with tests from `tests` directory.
- Generates a html report.
- Options for `coverage` are available in `setup.cfg` file.

#### Make coverage_report

- Shows a coverage report in your default web browser.

#### Make tox

- Runs `tox`

#### Make venv

- Prepares virtual environment in `venv` directory.

#### Make format

- Runs autopep8 formatter for the file specified as an argument.
- Original file and formatted file are opened in Meld Merge in the merge mode to easy review changes and selectively applying them.
  - Meld Merge is opened in three panes: (from left side) current file | final file | formatted file.
  - After accepting or modifying changes you must save the final file.
- File to format must be provided as argument for example: `make format <path to a file>`
- Aggressive formatting settings are used in `autopep8` by default.
- After closing the Meld Merge, a `flake8` report will be generated regarding to the formatted file.

#### Make lint

- Runs `flake8` with your source files.
- By default, `tests` directory is included.
- Options for `flake8` are available in `setup.cfg` file.

#### Make doc

- TODO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

#### Make install_reqs

- Installs requirements from `requirements.txt` file.

#### Make update_reqs

- Discovers requirements and prepares `requirements.txt` and `requirements-dev.txt` files.
- `requirements.txt` file is prepared using `pipreqs` and source code directory in your repository (package directory or root repository directory for package or module repository type respectively).
- `repoassist` and `tests` directories are ignored during requirements discovery.
- `requirements-dev.txt` file is prepared based on packages required by Repoassist. 
- If `requirements.txt` file exists it will be updated.
- If `requirements-dev.txt` file exists it will not be overwritten.

#### Make clean

- Cleans repository among others from:
  - build files
  - distribution files
  - Python cache files
  - Pytest cache files









# === UNDER CONSTRUCTION ===
# Features
- collect requirements as makefile target
- autonomus package with e.g. colreqs.py in generated repository as helper to makefile targets
- 

### release
* Update the requirements.txt file

Describe clean target

Source distribution of module repo is made as package

Regenerate release package has hash in package name if release tag is not on last commit
When regenerate on the same commit as tag - dist will be overwritten and without a commit hash

When you change project name in tree always change it in setup.cfg

Repo inside parent repo without submodule is not allowed

Commit hash is stored into .egg-info/pbr.json as git_version

Describe mechanism regarding dev release tag only in dist not in git that is set when release on different commit than last release tag commit

If generate repo in the same directory as is without force, repoassist is overwritten by default
